All right.
So in this lesson will introduce interfaces and types.
Now, these two constructs, interfaces and types are super, super similar to each other.
So much so that the TypeScript documentation says they're just about interchangeable with one another.
Now there are some small differences between them, but they're not really important for us until we
get to really advanced TypeScript.
So for now, you can consider them as basically being equivalent.
So what problem do interfaces and types solve for us?
They allow us to have a reusable object type definition so that we cut down on the amount of code we
have to write and also cut down on the duplication throughout our code.
So let me give you an example.
Let's see, I have two constants here.
My first one will be called the character one.
And here I'll create an object and it will have a name property set to a string of link and a scale
property set to a string of sword fighting.
And down below, I'll create another concept called Character two, and Character two will be a very
similar object with the name of Mario and a skill of jumping.
In fact, let's add another property here.
Let's add a likes mushrooms property and let's set it to true.
So we could argue for the purposes of our program, in our business logic, that these two types of
objects are similar or identical in our program.
Right now it's up to us to determine whether, for example, likes mushrooms is something that makes
this type of object very distinct from this one.
But I can argue, let's say, just for the sake of argument, that these two objects are basically the
same type.
They're going to have a name property set to a string.
They're going to have a skill property set to a string.
And they're going to have an optional likes, mushrooms, property set to a boom.
And let's say that description of that type of object with that shape, with those properties, with
those types, is something that I want to reuse many times throughout my program.
So what I obviously don't want to do is to go through every single manual declaration here.
And if I'm explicitly declaring types, I don't want to have to do this.
And the reason I don't want to have to do this is because it's going to create a lot of duplication.
I'm going to have to do the exact same thing right here to provide name of string.
Skill of string.
In fact, right here I can provide like mushrooms as being a boolean property.
That is optional, which means I can replicate the same thing up here.
I'm going to provide a likes mushrooms boolean property.
And so once again, we have this duplication even though we're trying to represent the same object type.
So the whole benefit of an interface or a type in TypeScript is that we can extract this logic right
here, this specific object shape to its own named construct in our program.
And the syntax is going to be pretty, pretty simple.
So right here.
Let's first talk about interfaces.
What I'm going to do is use the actual word interface.
An interface simply means I'm describing a type of object.
I'm not providing an implementation.
Remember, I'm really providing type definitions, but I'm describing what a specific type of object
in JavaScript will look like.
Here, after the word interface, we provide a name for our interface.
And typically this is going to have camel case naming formatting.
So let's say each one of these object types, the below I can describe as being a video game character.
So right here I'm going to use the name video game character that is going to be the name I provide
to my interface.
Afterwards, I provide a pair of curly braces.
And in here I provide the types for the properties of this video game character object.
Right.
So this is not a literal object.
This is not a value.
This is a blueprint in a way.
It's a type definition for an eventual video game character object.
Basically, what I provide in here is exactly what I'm providing in my literal object definition right
here in curly braces.
Except this interface is going to be reusable many times, and I only have to write it once.
So let's say my video game character object must have a name property that's going to be a string.
So I'm going to provide that, then provide a semicolon and I'm breaking this up across multiple lines.
That is the common convention that just makes things really easy to read and makes it really easy to
identify how many properties you have and what their exact type assignments are.
So my video game character will have a name, such a string.
It's going to have a skill set to a string as well, and it's going to have an optional like mushrooms
property.
So I'm going to make sure I end this with a question mark and that is going to be a boolean.
And so now, instead of manually writing out this type definition right here, I can simply replace
this with my interface.
So character one will be an object that is of type video game character.
Right.
And because TypeScript says, okay, I'm validating that what you gave me right here has to fulfill
everything you gave me here.
Everything is valid.
You've given me a name that's a string.
You've given me a skill.
That's a string you have not given me likes mushrooms.
But that is optional.
This is going to pass, right?
And once again, the exact same type safety occurs.
So if I tried to give a name something besides a string like the number five, we're going to get the
exact same expected error because it's going to say, hey, type number is not assignable to type string.
The expected type comes from property name, which is declared on the type video game character.
So we get the exact same benefits of type checking, except we get the reusability of isolating this
definition to its own separate named constructor that is reusable throughout our program.
So right here, let me return this back to Link.
And you guess that we can reuse video game character below as well.
So right here, instead of writing this out and duplicating that code, we can simply change it like
so and we get the benefits.
And the beautiful part is if tomorrow we decide that a video game character needs an additional property.
Right?
Like maybe it has something here.
Like, I don't know, language setter string.
Right.
As soon as we add this, we're going to get our errors everywhere in the program where we utilize video
game character.
And that's a good thing because it ensures that this one change reverberates throughout any place where
it's being used.
In comparison, if we declared our types manually in line and we forgot to, for example, provide a
certain property in one definition, then we would only see that error there, but not elsewhere.
Now we gain the benefits of reusability.
Wherever we are seeing a video game character being used, TypeScript is going to warn us that we are
not honoring that contract.
That's a common word you're going to hear when you're talking about interfaces in type languages.
An interface can be described like a contract.
It is a promise that the object makes that it will fulfill something, right?
So when we have an interface, a video game character, what we're seeing here is that character one
promises.
Just like when you promise to do something, when you sign a contract, it promises that its shape will
resemble the type called the video game character.
So that's the purpose that an interface serves.
All right.
So let's talk about types.
Types are very, very similar.
And you can view them, as I mentioned earlier, as basically being equivalent to an interface.
The only difference is the syntax.
Number one, and some small menu differences that we don't want to worry about right now.
So the type syntax looks like this.
Instead of using the word interface right here.
I replaced this with the word type.
And then instead of doing the curly braces immediately afterwards, instead I provide an equal sign.
And that is the only difference.
The logic remains exactly the same.
We are declaring what you can think of as an object type called the video game character.
Each object that we promise has that type must have two required properties and one optional boolean
property.
So same rules apply.
If I change skill here to something like an array, we're going to get an error because it's going to
tell us, hey, the expected type comes from property skill.
You told me that's going to be a string, but your type of an array in this case a never array, that's
not assignable to the type string that you promised me on your video game, character type.
All right.
So if I change this back, we're going to get back to a passing state.
So the syntax is slightly different type instead of interface, an equal sign before the curly braces.
But otherwise, for the most part, you can consider a type and an interface to be basically interchangeable
with each other, and they will be interchangeable for us as we move throughout the course.
If you are curious about the specific differences between the two.
I will provide a link as a resource to this lesson.
But again, that's really only important when you want to get into really advanced TypeScript to explore
the actual differences between those two constructs in the language.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.